Projects/House/Heating system/Fan coils.md, before:

Since the 1st floor won't have in-floor heating, or at least not in the first round. Another solution needed to be found. The solutions that were considered were:

- In-floor heating, to be milled at a later time
- Low temperature radiators
- Fan coils

After reading about this on this dutch forum [topic](https://gathering.tweakers.net/forum/list_messages/2080114) the choice was pretty easy to make. Fan coils would be the best solution for our house. The main advantages were:

- Ability to cool below the condensation point
- No large remodeling required

Because of how our floor plan is designed we are able to route the heating/cooling pipes through walls and ceiling. Therefore no floor milling is required making this easier to construct. And since the Netherlands will probably get hotter due to global warming (consecutive days of 45+ degrees will be possible). Having a way to properly cool the bed rooms 

Some drawbacks:
- Sewer connection needed for dumping condensation
- Noise levels when turned on

Fortunately we've got a sewer connection nearby in bedroom #2 where we can route the condensation.

The noise level will be mitigated by running the fan coils outside of sleeping hours.


The component choice, mainly guided by design, for know is between:
- [Innova filomuro SLWI 400-800](https://www.innovaenergie.com/en/products/fancoils/filomuro/filomuro-incasso/)
- Ceiling mounted [Innova Airleaf sli](https://www.innovaenergie.com/en/products/fancoils/airleaf/airleaf-sli/)
- [Innova Airleaf SL](https://www.innovaenergie.com/en/products/fancoils/airleaf/airleaf-sl/)

Unfortunately, our walls are seemingly to thin to have a in-wall Airleaf sli (128mm deep vs +/- 90mm thick walls)
# To do: 
- Calculate required power
- Determine pipe diameters
- Create first draft of hydraulic plan

Commit message:

Update insulation script and fan coil documentation

Projects/House/Heating system/Fan coils.md, after:

Since the 1st floor won't have in-floor heating, or at least not in the first round. Another solution needed to be found. The solutions that were considered were:

- In-floor heating, to be milled at a later time
- Low temperature radiators
- Fan coils

After reading about this on this dutch forum [topic](https://gathering.tweakers.net/forum/list_messages/2080114) the choice was pretty easy to make. Fan coils would be the best solution for our house. The main advantages were:

- Ability to cool below the condensation point
- No large remodeling required

Because of how our floor plan is designed we are able to route the heating/cooling pipes through walls and ceiling. Therefore no floor milling is required making this easier to construct. And since the Netherlands will probably get hotter due to global warming (consecutive days of 45+ degrees will be possible). Having a way to properly cool the bed rooms 

Some drawbacks:
- Sewer connection needed for dumping condensation
- Noise levels when turned on

Fortunately we've got a sewer connection nearby in bedroom #2 where we can route the condensation.

The noise level will be mitigated by running the fan coils outside of sleeping hours.


The component choice, mainly guided by design, for know is between:
- [Innova filomuro SLWI 400-800](https://www.innovaenergie.com/en/products/fancoils/filomuro/filomuro-incasso/)
- Ceiling mounted [Innova Airleaf sli](https://www.innovaenergie.com/en/products/fancoils/airleaf/airleaf-sli/)
- [Innova Airleaf SL](https://www.innovaenergie.com/en/products/fancoils/airleaf/airleaf-sl/)

Unfortunately, our walls are seemingly to thin to have a in-wall Airleaf sli (128mm deep vs +/- 90mm thick walls)

## Pipe insulation

The calculation of the required insulation of the pipes that provide cooled water for the fan coils is located at [[System dimensioning#Insulation calculation]]
# To do: 
- Create first draft of hydraulic plan
